The `revive` compiler documentation (#424)
paritytech/revive: book/src/user_guide/differences.md

# Differences to EVM

This section highlights some potentially observable differences in the [YUL EVM dialect](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/yul.html#evm-dialect) translation compared to Ethereum Solidity.

Solidity developers deploying dApps to [`pallet-revive`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/substrate/frame/revive) ought to read and understand this section well.

## Deploy code vs. runtime code

Our contract runtime does not differentiate between runtime code and deploy (constructor) code.
Instead, both are emitted into a single PVM contract code blob and live on-chain.
Therefor, in EVM termonology, the deploy code equals the runtime code.

> > **Tip**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
```

>
> In constructor code, the `codesize` instruction will return the call data size instead of the actual code blob size.

## Solidity

We are aware of the following differences in the translation of Solidity code.

### `address.creationCode`

This returns the bytecode keccak256 hash instead.

## YUL functions

The below list contains noteworthy differences in the translation of YUL functions.

> **Note**
>
> Many functions receive memory buffer offset pointer or size arguments. Since the PVM pointer size is 32 bit, supplying memory offset or buffer size values above `2^32-1` will trap the contract immediatly.

The `solc` compiler ought to always emit valid memory references, so Solidity dApp authors don't need to worry about this unless they deal with low level `assembly` code.

### `mload`, `mstore`, `msize`, `mcopy` (memory related functions) 

In general, revive preserves the memory layout, meaning low level memory operations are supported. However, a few caveats apply:

> - The EVM linear heap memory is emulated using a fixed byte buffer of 64kb. This implies that the maximum memory a contract can use is limited to 64kbit (on Ethereum, contract memory is capped by gas and therefor variable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The EVM linear heap memory is emulated using a fixed byte buffer of 64kb. This implies that the maximum memory a contract can use is limited to 64kbit (on Ethereum, contract memory is capped by gas and therefore varies).
```
